---
tags:
  - cs1200LN
date: {}
---
#cs1200LN
|  |  |  |  |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| [[CS1200|Home]] | [[CS1200 Calendar|Calendar]] | [[CS1200 Syllabus]] | [[Lecture Notes]] |


## Reminders

```query
cs1200task
where done = false
order by pos
limit 4
render [[template/topic]]
```

## Objectives

```query
task
where page = "CS1200 Calendar" and done = false
limit 3
order by pos
render [[template/topic]]
```


---

#Theorem (_The Difference Rule_): Suppose set **B** is a subset of a finite set **A**, then
```latex
|A-B| = |A| - |B|
```

---
_example:_ **non-dictionary passwords**

A common tactic for attackers is to not guess a password randomly, but instead focus on guessing passwords that spell out English words. The reasoning is that these passwords are much easier to remember for the users and thus more likely to be chosen

Suppose that we add a restriction to our 8-character passwords that they cannot be words found in the dictionary. For reference, the official Scrabble® Dictionary contains **80148** 8-letter words. In this case, how many valid passwords can we generate?

**A** - The set of all 8-character passwords
**B** - The set of all 8-letter English words

Suppose that **B** is a subset of **A** (ignore the possibility of words with non-alphanumeric characters)

**|A|** = 218,340,105,584,896
**|B|** = 80148

Therefore, by the _difference rule_, the total number of valid passwords is **|A| - |B|** = 218,340,105,504,748

* [ ] Brileigh  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC
* [ ] Joseph S.  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC

---
## Probability of Complements

#Theorem If **S** is a finite _sample space_ and **E** is an event in **S**, then
```latex
P(E^c) = 1 - P(E)
```

In other words, the probability that a particular event _does not_ happen is equal to one minus the probability that it _does_ happen.

---
_example:_ **stronger passwords**

Let us suppose that a strong 8-character password is one that:
* contains at least one uppercase letter
* contains at least one lowercase letter
* contains at least one number
* every character is unique 

What is the probability that a uniform randomly generated password will **not** satisfy these requirements?

Let **S** = the set of all possible passwords (consisting of 0-9,a-z,A-Z)
Let **V** = the set of all passwords satisfying the requirements
Let **I** = the set of all passwords not satisfying the requirements

We want to know **P(I)**, but because **I** is the _complement_ of **V**, we can instead work on calculating **P(V)**

To figure out **|V|**, we need to count the number of passwords that meet our restrictions. Let us model this as a random process

* **Step 1:** Select the characters used in the password
* **Step 2:** Select the order of the characters

In **step 1**, we need to ensure that the characters selected include something from {0-9}, {a-z}, and {A-Z}. Let us break this step down even further.

* **Step 1:** Select the characters used in the password
  * **Step 1a:** Select a character from {0-9}
  * **Step 1b:** Select a character from {a-z}
  * **Step 1c:** Select a character from {A-Z}
  * **Step 1d:** Select the remaining 5 characters ==uniquely==
* **Step 2:** Select the order of the characters

This way, **steps 1a-1c** ensure we meet the requirements. Now we can compute our probabilities using the _multiplication rule_

  _N(x) := the number of ways to perform step x_
  **|S|** = 218,340,105,584,896
  **|V|** = N(Step 1) * N(Step 2)
  
  **N(Step 1)** = N(Step 1a) * N(Step 1b) * N(Step 1c) * N(Step 1d)

* [ ] Brileigh  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC
* [ ] Joseph S  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC
* [ ] Drake  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC

  * **N(Step 1a)** = 10
  * **N(Step 1b)** = 26
  * **N(Step 1c)** = 26
  * **N(Step 1d)** = 59x58x57x56x55

  * **N(Step 1)** = (59x58x57x56x55)x26x26x10
  
  **N(Step 2)** = number of _permutations_ for a set of 8 = **8!**
  
  Therefore, **|V|** = 8!x(59x58x57x56x55)x26x26x10 = 1.6374679e+17 and **P(V)** = **|V| ➗ |S|**
  
  Finally, **P(I) = 1 - P(V)**

---

**Practice Problems:**

* How many 3-digit integers (100-999) are divisible by 5?
* How many integers from 1 through 999 have no repeated digits?
* How many integers from 1 through 999 have at least one repeated digit?
* What is the probability that a randomly chosen integer 1-999 contains at least one repeated digit?
* How many 4-digit integers have exactly 3 repeated digits?
* ==How many 4-digit integers have at least 3 repeated digits?==

1000 - 9999
==0000 - 9999==

9199 1999 9919 9991
9999


P - set of all valid passwords
T - set of all valid passwords with 3 repeated digits exactly
F - set of all valid passwords with exactly 4 repeated digits

* [ ] Kody  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC
* [ ] Brileigh  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC
* [ ] Joseph S.  📅2024-07-15 #cs1200EC

|T| - 360 ways

**Step 1:** Select digits in the number
**step 1a:** Select the repeating digit (0-9) **10**
**step 1b:** Select the non-repeating digit **9**
**Step 2:** Order the digits **4**

**N(1)** = 90
**N(2)** = 4

|F| - **10**

0000, 1111, 2222, ..., 9999

|P| = |T| + |F| = **360 + 10 = 370**

---
# Counting Unions & Intersections of Sets

Getting the exact number of elements in a union of sets can be tricky. After all, the sets might in general share some elements or they might not

#Theorem For finite sets **A and B**:
```latex
|A \cup B| = |A| + |B| - |A \cap B|
```

Intuitively, this means that the number of elements in **A U B** is equal to the number of elements in **A** plus the number of elements in **B** minus the number of elements that they share.
