#cs1200LN
|  |  |  |  |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| [[CS1200|Home]] | [[CS1200 Calendar|Calendar]] | [[CS1200 Syllabus]] | [[Lecture Notes]] |


## Reminders

```query
cs1200task
where done = false
order by pos
limit 4
render [[template/topic]]
```

## Objectives

```query
task
where page = "CS1200 Calendar" and done = false
limit 3
order by pos
render [[template/topic]]
```
---


#Theorem For finite sets **A,B,C**:
```latex
|A \cup B \cup C| = |A| + |B| + |C| - |A \cap B| - |B \cap C| - |A \cap C| + |A \cap B \cap C| 
```

#DiscussionQuestion How can we interpret the theorem above? Try using a Venn diagram to visualize the result and gain a better intuition 

_example:_ **Drug study**

A pharmaceutical company is performing a trial of three new medications, **Drug A, Drug B**, and **Drug C** 

**50** patients were given the medications to try and asked to report on if they experienced relief of their symptoms. The results were as follows:

* **21** patients reported relief when using **Drug A**
* **21** patients reported relief when using **Drug B**
* **31** patients reported relief when using **Drug C**
* **9** patients reported relief when using **Drugs A & B**
* **14** patients reported relief when using **Drugs A & C**
* **15** patients reported relief when using **Drugs B & C**
* **41** patients reported relief from at least one of the drugs

Analyze the results of the trial by drawing a Venn diagram representing the results and answering the following questions:
* How many patients got relief from none of the drugs? 50 - 41 = 9
* How many patients got relief from all 3 of the drugs? 6
* How many patients got relief from **Drug A** _only_?

**A - people who got relief from drug A**
**B - people who got relief from drug B**
**C - people who got relief from drug C**

|A U B U C| = |A| + |B| + |C| - |A n B| - |A n C| - |B n C| + |A n B n C|

41 = 21 + 21 + 31 - 9 - 14 - 15 + |A n B n C|

41 - 21 - 21 - 31 + 9 + 14 + 15 = 6


---
# Combinations

Recall the definition of _r-permutations_. A similar concept is given for problems in which order is not considered

#Definition An **r-combination** of a set with **n** elements is an (unordered) subset of the set with **r** elements. The number of _r-combinations_ of a set of **n** elements is denoted **C(n,r)** and read as **“n choose r”**

#Theorem If **n** and **r** are integers such that **1 <= r <= n**, then **C(n,r)** is given by the formula:
```latex
C(n,r) = \frac{\text{\# of r-permutations}}{\text{\# of ways to order r elements}} = \frac{\frac{n!}{(n-r)!}}{r!} = \frac{n!}{r!(n-r)!}
```

_Note: C(n,r) is also denoted_
```latex
C(n,r) = {n \choose r}
```

Another convenient interpretation of **C(n,r)** is that it is the number of unique r-element _subsets_ of a set with **n** elements

_example:_

Suppose that 12 children are playing four-square during recess (a game that requires exactly 4 players). How many different games could be played (with a unique selection of players)?

If there are no further restrictions, number of unique games is given by 
```latex
{12 \choose 4} = \frac{12!}{4!(12-4)!} = 495
```

#DiscussionQuestion How would this change if two of the twelve students insisted on playing together (they either both play or neither plays)? How many games could be formed then?

Consider the number of ways to play with both friends in the game
  * start by choosing both friends
  * select 2 other players from the remaining 10 = C(10,2)

Consider the number of ways to play with neither friend in the game
  * select 4 players from the remaining 10 = C(10,4)

C(10,2) + C(10,4)

#DiscussionQuestion What if instead two children refused to play together (but would still play with other children or not at all)? How could we count the number of possible games?

