#cs1575LN
|  |  |  |  |
|----------|----------|----------|----------|
| [[CS1575|Home]] | [[CS1575 Calendar|Calendar]] | [[CS1575 Syllabus|Syllabus]] | [[Lecture Notes]] |


## Reminders

```query
cs1575task
where done = false
render [[template/topic]]
```

## Objectives

```query
task
where page = "CS1575 Calendar" and done = false
limit 3
order by pos
render [[template/topic]]
```
---


# Abstract Data Types

Just as computer scientists decide upon problem representations, we are also tasked with devising ways to take the relevant problem-data and represent it in the computer. 

An **Abstract Data Type** (ADT) is a way of describing the _shape_ and _utility_ of a data representation ==without specifying _how it works_.==

Breaking that down a bit, by _shape_ we essentially mean what the data is (an integer, a continuous value, etc.), or in the case of ==_collections_ of data==, how the individual pieces of data are related to each other. Do they have an order to them? Is that order linear or hierarchical? Does the relationship between them come from the values they store or from the problem we are trying to represent? Luckily for us, these underlying patterns of relationships have been studied by mathematicians long before computers existed. That is why one component of an ADT is a **mathematical object** that best fits the answer to these questions. Examples might include _sequences, sets, trees, graphs, or functions_

By _utility_, we mean what we want to be able to do with that data. Will we need to add more data as the program goes along? What about removing data? Do we need the ability to retrieve data or change the order of it? All of this goes into the **operations** that we define for our ADT.

Put another way, an ==ADT is a **mathematical object** together with its **operations.**== Note that these concepts have nothing to do with code, the underlying details of how we store the data and make the operations function is completely programming-language-dependent and is typically tailored to the problem at hand.

## ADT Covered in This Course:

  * [[Lists]]
  * [[Stacks & Queues]]
  * [[Maps]]
  * [[Priority Queues]]
  * [[Graphs]]

# Data Structures

A ==**Data Structure** is a _particular implementation_ of an abstract data type.== There can be, and indeed often are, many different implementations to choose from. This stems from the unfortunate but unavoidable fact that any implementation of an ADT is _always_ going to be less powerful than the mathematical object that it emulates.  (9^2939823503094 is a valid integer, but can you store it in a computer?)

We have to make concessions and consider the trade-offs between different data structures in order to build efficient and scalable programs. ==Which operations should we optimize==? Do we care more about speed or memory-usage? Navigating these questions and choosing the right data structure for the job can mean the difference between a program finishing in seconds, hours, or never at all! 

## The Problem-solving Playbook

Does this all sound kinda complicated? It can be, but don’t worry! Building efficient programs takes practice, but it can be done if you follow these tried-and-true steps to programming success:

**Fore! 🏌️ For-malize the problem, that is!** We need a formal representation of the problem at hand. This often means stripping away all unnecessary details until we’re left with only the most essential characteristics.

**Hut-hu- 🏈 High-level algorithms come next!** Don’t get too caught up in specifics just yet, a high-level algorithm describes the steps to take in plain English. It’s here that you can start to think about what kind of operations will be needed, which leads naturally into selecting an appropriate ADT.

**Come on, Ref! 🏁 Ref-ine that algorithm!** Now that you have an idea of what type of ADT you’ll be using, it’s time to think about the best way of implementing it into a data structure. Which operations are most important, and what can you sacrifice in the name of overall efficiency?

**Stick 🏒 to the plan!** Everything’s in place for the perfect play, all that’s left is to implement! That said, no program is perfect. You can continue to iterate on these steps, further refining your algorithm, exploring a totally different high-level solution, or even changing how you represent the problem in the first place!


# The List Abstract Data Type

A List is a _sequence_ of elements of the same type
```latex
< a_0, a_1, a_2, ... , a_{n-1} >  
```

where:
```latex
a_i \text{ is element i in the sequence}\\
a_0 \text{ is the \textbf{head} of the List}\\
a_n \text{ is the \textbf{tail} of the List}\\
n \text{ is the \textbf{size} of the List}
```

## Operations

We shall define the following operations for the List A.D.T.:

```latex
\text{Let } L1 = < a, o, e, u, i >
```
* **Size(L)**           -> The number of elements in L
* **Get(L, i)**        -> The element of L at position i
* **Set(L, i, x)**      -> L’ with element i set to x
* **Insert(L, i, x)**   -> L’ with new element at position i    
* **Erase(L, i)**      -> L’ with element i removed
* **Find(L, x)**       -> _true_ if x is in L, _false_ otherwise


_#KnowledgeCheck: What will be the result of each operation below_
* Size(L1) -> 5
* Get(L1, 2) -> e
* Set(L1, 1, y) -> < a, y, e, u, i >
* Insert(L1, 1, y) -> <a, y, o, e, u, i >
* Erase(L1, 3) -> <a, o, e, i>
* Find(L1, h) -> false

_Discussion Questions:_
* What similarities exist between a List and an Array?
* Which operations do they share?

Remember that an A.D.T. is a theoretical concept that has **nothing to do with C++ code**. Any structure, regardless of how it works or how it’s built, can be considered an implementation of a List as long as it can perform the above operations on a sequence of data.
